Docs: Fundamentals of Block Development - block in the editor (#56488)
WordPress/gutenberg: docs/getting-started/fundamentals/block-in-the-editor.md

# The block in the Editor

> The Block Editor is a React Single Page Application (SPA) and every block in the editor is displayed through a React component defined in the `Edit` property of the settings object used to [register the block on the client](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/getting-started/fundamentals/registration-of-a-block/#registration-of-the-block-with-javascript-client-side). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Block Editor is a React Single Page Application (SPA) and every block in the editor is displayed through a React component defined in the `edit` property of the settings object used to [register the block on the client](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/getting-started/fundamentals/registration-of-a-block/#registration-of-the-block-with-javascript-client-side). 
```
I think this should be `edit` 🤔 The `Edit` component is assigned to the `edit` property.

The `props` object received by the block's `Edit` React component includes:
- [`attributes`](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/block-api/block-edit-save/#attributes) - attributes object
- [`setAttributes`](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/block-api/block-edit-save/#setattributes) - method to update the attributes object
- [`isSelected`](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/block-api/block-edit-save/#isselected) - boolean that communicates whether the block is currently selected

> WordPress provides a lot of built-in standard components that can be used to define the interface of the block in the editor. These built-in components are available via packages such as [`@wordpress/components`](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/packages/packages-components/) or [`@wordpress/block-editor`](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/packages/packages-block-editor/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WordPress provides many built-in standard components that can be used to define the interface of the block in the editor. These built-in components are available via packages such as [`@wordpress/components`](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/packages/packages-components/) and [`@wordpress/block-editor`](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/packages/packages-block-editor/).
```

<div class="callout">

> The WordPress Gutenberg project uses <a href="https://wordpress.github.io/gutenberg/?path=/docs/docs-introduction--page">Storybook</a> to document the UI components available from WordPress packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The WordPress Gutenberg project uses <a href="https://wordpress.github.io/gutenberg/?path=/docs/docs-introduction--page">Storybook</a> to document the user interface components that are available in WordPress packages.
```

</div>

> Custom settings controls for the block in the `Block Toolbar` or in the `Settings Sidebar` can also be defined through this `Edit` React component via built-in components such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom settings controls for the block in the Block Toolbar or the Settings Sidebar can also be defined through this `Edit` React component via built-in components such as:
```

## Built-in components

The package [`@wordpress/components`](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/packages/packages-components/) includes a library of generic WordPress components to create common UI elements for the Block Editor and the WordPress dashboard. Some of the  most commonly used components from this package are:
- [`TextControl`](https://wordpress.github.io/gutenberg/?path=/docs/components-textcontrol--docs) 
- [`Panel`](https://wordpress.github.io/gutenberg/?path=/docs/components-panel--docs)
- [`ToggleControl`](https://wordpress.github.io/gutenberg/?path=/docs/components-togglecontrol--docs)
- [`ExternalLink`](https://wordpress.github.io/gutenberg/?path=/docs/components-externallink--docs)

The package [`@wordpress/block-editor`](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/packages/packages-block-editor/) includes a library of components and hooks for the Block Editor, including those to define custom settings controls for the block in the Editor. Some of the components most commonly used from this package are:
- `RichText`
- `BlockControls`
- `InspectorControls`
- `InnerBlocks`

> - `PanelColorSettings`

Reviewer: Should these link to the respective sections of the Reference guide? For example: https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/packages/packages-block-editor/#richtext

Author: You're right. I have added proper links when available 👍

<div class="callout callout-tip">
The package <a href="https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/packages/packages-block-editor/"><code>@wordpress/block-editor</code></a> also provide the tools to create and use standalone block editors.
</div>

A good workflow when using a component for the Block Editor is:

> - Import the component from a Wordpress package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Import the component from a WordPress package
```

> - Include the corresponding code for the component into the JSX code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add the corresponding code for the component to your project in JSX format
```

> - If needed, define `attributes` in `block.json` and define event handlers to update those attributes with `setAttributes`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Most built-in components will be used to set [block attributes](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/getting-started/fundamentals/block-json/#using-attributes-to-store-block-data), so define any necessary attributes in `block.json` and create event handlers to update those attributes with `setAttributes` in your component
```

> - If needed, adapt the code to be serialized and stored in the database

Reviewer: I don't fully understand this line 😅

When the user selects a block, a number of control buttons may be shown in a toolbar above the selected block. Some of these block-level controls may be included automatically but you can also customize the toolbar to include controls specific to your block type. If the return value of your block type's `edit` function includes a `BlockControls` element, those controls will be shown in the selected block's toolbar.

```jsx
export default function Edit( { className, attributes: attr, setAttributes } ) {

	const onChangeContent = ( newContent ) => {
		setAttributes( { content: newContent } );
	};

	const onChangeAlignment = ( newAlignment ) => {
		setAttributes( {
			alignment: newAlignment === undefined ? 'none' : newAlignment,
		} );
	};

	return (
		<div { ...useBlockProps() }>
			<BlockControls>
				<ToolbarGroup>
					<AlignmentToolbar
						value={ attr.alignment }
						onChange={ onChangeAlignment }
					/>
				</ToolbarGroup>
			</BlockControls>

			<RichText
				className={ className }
				style={ { textAlign: attr.alignment } }
				tagName="p"
				onChange={ onChangeContent }
				value={ attr.content }
			/>
		</div>
	);
}
```

> _See the [full block example](https://github.com/WordPress/block-development-examples/tree/trunk/plugins/block-toolbar-ab967f) of the [code above](https://github.com/WordPress/block-development-examples/blob/trunk/plugins/block-toolbar-ab967f/src/edit.js)_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_See the [full block example](https://github.com/WordPress/block-development-examples/tree/trunk/plugins/block-toolbar-ab967f) of the [code above](https://github.com/WordPress/block-development-examples/blob/trunk/plugins/block-toolbar-ab967f/src/edit.js)._
```

	const onChangeBGColor = ( hexColor ) => {
		setAttributes( { bg_color: hexColor } );
	};

	const onChangeTextColor = ( hexColor ) => {
		setAttributes( { text_color: hexColor } );
	};

	return (
		<div { ...useBlockProps() }>
			<InspectorControls key="setting">
				<div>
					<fieldset>
						<legend className="blocks-base-control__label">
							{ __( 'Background color', 'block-development-examples' ) }
						</legend>
						<ColorPalette // Element Tag for Gutenberg standard colour selector
							onChange={ onChangeBGColor } // onChange event callback
						/>
					</fieldset>
					<fieldset>
						<legend className="blocks-base-control__label">
							{ __( 'Text color', 'block-development-examples' ) }
						</legend>
						<ColorPalette // Element Tag for Gutenberg standard colour selector
							onChange={ onChangeTextColor } // onChange event callback
						/>
					</fieldset>
				</div>
			</InspectorControls>
			<TextControl
				value={ attributes.message }
				onChange={ ( val ) => setAttributes( { message: val } ) }
				style={ {
					backgroundColor: attributes.bg_color,
					color: attributes.text_color,
				} }
			/>
		</div>
	);
}
```

> _See the [full block example](https://github.com/WordPress/block-development-examples/tree/trunk/plugins/settings-sidebar-82c525) of the [code above](https://github.com/WordPress/block-development-examples/blob/trunk/plugins/settings-sidebar-82c525/src/edit.js)_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_See the [full block example](https://github.com/WordPress/block-development-examples/tree/trunk/plugins/settings-sidebar-82c525) of the [code above](https://github.com/WordPress/block-development-examples/blob/trunk/plugins/settings-sidebar-82c525/src/edit.js)._
```
